# PRDM9

### [Myers et al. (2010)](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1182363)

##### Title: Drive Against Hotspot Motifs in Primates Implicates the PRDM9 Gene in Meiotic Recombination

##### Author: Myers et al.

[Parvanov et al. (2010)](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1181495)

##### Title: *Prdm9* Controls Activation of Mammalian Recombination Hotspots

##### Author: Parvanov et al.

I think the abstract of both papers suit better for summarizing than what I could possibly write.

I couldn't understand the background of these two papers until I search "PRDM9" on YouTube, hoping to find someone can make some video explanation. And luckily enough, I found the [IST Lecture: "Meiosis, recombination, and the origin of a species" by Peter Donelly](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=al83NW6e-fU). Donelly is one of the senior authors in the first paper. I have limited biological knowledge. Here is what I've learned:

* Meiotic recombination doesn't happen uniformly across chromosomes. There are so-called hotpots that some places are more likely to become the meiotic recombination sites than others. A natural question is why this nonuniformity happens. And although humans and chimpanzees share nearly 99% aligned bases, the recombination hotspots are different between humans and chimpanzees. Why is that? 
* It turns out PRDM9 is the protein responsible for such recombination hotspots. The protein contains the zinc-finger domain that binds to specific motifs to determine the recombination sites. 
* The motifs are different across different species. Thus the zinc-finger of PRDM9 in different species must be differentiated and specific to its corresponding motifs. 
* Another question is that the biased gene conversion (BGC) degrades recombination hotspots through evolution. Thus the PRDM9's zinc-finger must also be rapidly evolving accordingly. 

Questions:

* From the talk, dogs don't have functional PRDM9. How does their meiotic recombination work? 
* The second paper asks whether PRDM9 controls activation of all, or nearly all, recombination hotspots. It seems so, at least for mammals (except dogs) confirmed by recent papers. What's the implication for that?